#summary PyroScope Plugins for FlexGet.
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Configuration steps to activate the rTorrent plugins =
*TODO:* Describe how to activate it.

*⚠ IMPORTANT:* Note that you need to run a reasonably recent FlexGet 1.0 beta installation to successfully use these plugins. More on setting up FlexGet can be found on its [http://flexget.com/wiki/Install homepage].


= Loading accepted items directly into rTorrent =
== Introduction to the `rtorrent` plugin ==
The `rtorrent` plugin is probably the one most useful to people that use both rTorrent and FlexGet. It's a FlexGet output plugin similar to the [http://flexget.com/wiki/Plugins/deluge Deluge one] that ...

*TODO:* More details...
 * Connection settings
 * Custom fields
 * Defaults


== `rtorrent` options ==
The following options can be used to configure the plugin's behaviour. Many of them have semantics identical to that of the [http://flexget.com/wiki/Plugins/deluge#Options Deluge plugin], making it easier to share configurations.

|| *Name* || *Default* || *Description* ||
|| `connection` || from `rtorrent.rc` || The SCGI connection URL to the client ||
|| `path` || from `rtorrent.rc` || The download location (directory). ||
|| `movedone` || Don't move (unset) || The location the downloaded data will be moved to on completion. The rules regarding target paths as described for [CommandLineTools#rtmv rtmv] do apply. *TODO: find out where rutorrent stores this* ||
|| `start` || `yes` || Start items immediately? ||
|| `ignore` || `no` || Set item to ignore commands? ||
|| `label` || `???` || Set custom field "`label`". *TODO: find out where rutorrent stores this* ||
|| `custom` || No custom fields || List of custom fields to set. *TODO: Details / Examples* ||
|| `throttle` || `none` || Name of throttle group to put items into (`null` = unlimited, `none` = global) ||
|| `` || `` || ... more? *TODO* ||

Note that many of the above settings can be used on a per-entry basis, if you add them e.g. via the `settings` plugin. *NOT IMPLEMENTED YET / LIST THEM*


== Advanced usage ==
As with the Deluge plugin, you can [http://flexget.com/wiki/Cookbook/Series/DelugeMovedone use the settings plugin] to add custom fields to any entry, which are then used by the rTorrent plugin. *NOT IMPLEMENTED YET*

== Configuration examples ==

Recommended configuration: *TODO*
{{{
presets:
  global:
    torrent_scrub: rtorrent

feeds:
  recommended:
    rtorrent: yes
    ...
}}}

More examples: *TODO*
{{{
feeds:
  using_defaults:
    rtorrent: yes
    ...
}}}


= Filtering entries based on rTorrent's status =

The `rtorrent_filter` plugin allows you to reject items based on what's already loaded into your client.

*TODO:* More details...

Examples: *TODO*
{{{
feeds:
  using_defaults:
    rtorrent_filter: yes
    ...
}}}


= Using items loaded into rTorrent as a feed =

*TODO:* More details...


= Using filter expressions =

*TODO:* Describe syntax extensions in more detail.
Link to FlexGet page with fields listing.

Plugins: pyro_reject_if, pyro_accept_if, pyro_reject_if_download, pyro_accept_if_download


Examples:
{{{
feeds:
  good_movies:
    pyro_accept_if: rating>9
    ...
  good_or_new_movies:
    pyro_accept_if:
      - year>=2010
      - rating>9
    ...
  public_torrent_downloads_only:
    pyro_reject_if_download: ?torrent.content.info.?private=1
    ...
  ubuntu_offical:
    pyro_accept_if_download: ?torrent.content.announce=*.ubuntu.com[/:]*
    ...
  quality_name:
    pyro_reject_if: quality.name~(1080|720)p
    ...
  quality_level:
    pyro_reject_if: quality.value<500
    ...
}}}