#summary How to get started - installation and first steps.
#labels installation,configuration,cli
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Installing a release version =
For a working installation, you have to meet these requirements first:
 * Python 2.5 or a higher 2.x version (2.5 is recommended); go to http://www.python.org/download/ if you're on an OS that doesn't have Python out of the box.
 * for `rtcontrol` and `rtxmlrpc`, an existing rTorrent installation, _with the xmlrpc option compiled in_ and the `scgi_local` or `scgi_port` command added to your `~/.rtorrent.rc`.
 * Using rTorrent *0.8.6* is recommended — PyroScope _should_ work together with older versions though, up to a point.

On Debian, Ubuntu, and other Debian-derived distributions, do this (tested on Hardy 8.04 LTS):
{{{
sudo apt-get install python-setuptools
sudo easy_install --prefix /usr/local pyrocore
}}}
After that, the CommandLineTools should be immediately available in your shell prompt. 

In case you have no `root` rights, or `easy_install` prints a message containing »`error: bad install directory or PYTHONPATH`«, try to InstallToPythonVirtualenv instead, and after having done so, return to this page and read on.

To complete your setup, you *must change your `rtorrent.rc`* using the instructions on the UserConfiguration page, else many features of `rtcontrol` won't work as expected. You should at least *create a configuration* as described there, using the `pyroadmin --create-config` command. If you encounter any problems during installation not covered by the documentation, subscribe to the [http://groups.google.com/group/pyroscope-users pyroscope-users] mailing list to get help from the community, or join the inofficial <a href="irc://irc.freenode.net/rtorrent">`#rtorrent`</a> channel on `irc.freenode.net`.


= Updating to a new release version =

Remember to *read any [http://code.google.com/p/pyroscope/wiki/UserConfiguration#Updating_your_existing_configuration_for_a_new_software_version migration instructions], and the [http://code.google.com/p/pyroscope/source/browse/trunk/debian/changelog changelog], BEFORE installing any new version*.

Then to *update* an existing installation, use this command:
{{{
sudo easy_install --prefix /usr/local -U pyrocore
}}}

In case you followed InstallToPythonVirtualenv, use this instead:
{{{
~/lib/pyroscope/bin/easy_install -U pyrocore
}}}

= Special considerations for different platforms =

== Machines you have no adminstration (root) rights for ==
If you miss the right to globally install any software, there's still hope, as long as any version of Python 2.5, 2.6 or 2.7 is installed already.

In such a case, just follow InstallToPythonVirtualenv to add everything else that you need to your own account.

== Debian, Ubuntu, and other Debian-derived distributions ==

See the first section of this page.

== Arch Linux ==

See this [https://aur.archlinux.org/packages.php?ID=47197 AUR package] and take note of the hints regarding configuration, in the first section of this page.


== Other Linux variants and Mac OSX ==

For non-Debian distributions, use the appropriate package management tools to install the aforementioned prerequisites — the package names should be similar (contain the word "`setuptools`"). If you're unable to find a `setuptools` package for your distribution, download it [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools/ from here] and install it according to the given instructions. 

Then use the `easy_install` command shown in the first section to download and install the `pyrocore` package, and take note of the hints regarding configuration.


== Windows ==

On Windows, just use `easy_install pyrocore` in `cmd.exe` after [http://www.python.org/download/ installing Python] and `setuptools` as [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools/ described here].

Note that on Windows, you are limited to using the tools that allow the handling of torrent files. There seems to be a Cygwin port of RTorrent for Windows, but there are no reports of any such installation working together with PyroScope.