#summary Python Torrent Tools.
#labels introduction,overview

== Introduction ==

PyroScope is a collection of tools for the BitTorrent protocol and especially the rTorrent client.

It offers the following components:
 * CommandLineTools for automation of common tasks, like metafile creation
 * rTorrent extensions like a queue manager and statistics
 * a modern and versatile rTorrent web interface

To get started right away, see the QuickStartGuide.
If you want to get a first impression without installing the software, look at the ScreenShotGallery. It's also very easy to WriteYourOwnScripts to automate anything that the standard commands can't do. To get in contact and share your experiences with other users of PyroScope, join the [http://groups.google.com/group/pyroscope-users pyroscope-users] mailing list.

If you like PyroScope, click on the following button to support it.
<wiki:gadget url="http://www.ohloh.net/p/346666/widgets/project_users.xml?style=red" height="100"  border="0" />

== News ==
<dl>
<dt>*29 Aug 2010*</dt><dd>[http://pypi.python.org/pypi?:action=display&name=pyrocore&version=0.3.6 pyrocore 0.3.6] released,
featuring selection into rTorrent views, more torrent life-cycle field, 
file listings and filtering based on file type, and finer control over 
formatting pathname fields.</dd>

<dt>*28 Aug 2010*</dt><dd>Published the [http://packages.python.org/pyrocore/apidocs/index.html API documentation] in Javadoc style including class diagrams and cross-referenced source code.</dd>

<dt>*20 Aug 2010*</dt><dd>[http://pypi.python.org/pypi?:action=display&name=pyrocore&version=0.3.5 pyrocore 0.3.5] released,
adding custom attributes and item tagging, adding column headers to result listings.</dd>

<dt>*16 Aug 2010*</dt>
<dd>[http://pypi.python.org/pypi?:action=display&name=pyrocore&version=0.3.4 pyrocore 0.3.4] released,
with a finished `chtor` and new `rtxmlrpc` tool, 
additional fields containing load and completion time,
and action options to delete or throttle items, or put them under manual control.</dd>

<dt>*20 Mar 2010*</dt>
<dd>[http://pypi.python.org/pypi?:action=display&name=pyrocore&version=0.3.3 pyrocore 0.3.3] released
including many new `chtor` options, and some `rtcontrol` improvements.</dd>

<dt>*14 Mar 2010*</dt>
<dd>[http://pypi.python.org/pypi?:action=display&name=pyrocore&version=0.3.2 pyrocore 0.3.2] released, allowing you to mass-start/stop items in a selection result.</dd>

<dt>*13 Mar 2010*</dt>
<dd>[http://pypi.python.org/pypi?:action=display&name=pyrocore&version=0.3.1 pyrocore 0.3.1] released, adding filtering, sorting and output formatting to `rtcontrol`.</dd>

<dt>*08 Mar 2010*</dt>
<dd>[http://pypi.python.org/pypi?:action=display&name=pyrocore&version=0.2.1 pyrocore 0.2.1] released, with new tools `chtor` and `pyroadmin`, and a finished configuration system.</dd>

<dt>*19 Feb 2010*</dt>
<dd>First release of `pyrocore` ([http://pypi.python.org/pypi?:action=display&name=pyrocore&version=0.1.1 0.1.1]), containing the `lstor` and `mktor` utilities.</dd>

</dl>


== Project Status ==
PyroScope is implemented in [http://www.python.org/ Python] using the [http://pylonshq.com/ Pylons] web framework. The main build tool is [http://www.blueskyonmars.com/projects/paver/ Paver], which is based on `setuptools`.

This is the status of various parts of the project:
|| *ohloh.net Statistics* || <wiki:gadget url="http://www.ohloh.net/p/346666/widgets/project_thin_badge.xml" height="36"  border="0" /> ||
|| *CommandLineTools* || http://pyroscope.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyroscope/docs/media/img/box-check.png mktor, lstor, chtor, rtcontrol, rtxmlrpc, pyroadmin ||
|| *UserConfiguration* || http://pyroscope.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyroscope/docs/media/img/box-check.png loaded from `config.ini` and `config.py` ||
|| *QueueManager* || _not yet implemented_ ||
|| *Web Interface* || http://pyroscope.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyroscope/docs/media/img/box-check.png usable alpha ||
|| _Torrents List_ || http://pyroscope.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyroscope/docs/media/img/box-check.png all rTorrent views plus active torrents & messages view ||
|| _Torrent Control_ || _not yet implemented_ ||
|| _Torrent Detail_ || _not yet implemented_ ||
|| _Torrents Search_ || http://pyroscope.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyroscope/docs/media/img/box-check.png view filter searching in all metadata fields ||
|| _Statistics_ || http://pyroscope.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyroscope/docs/media/img/box-check.png tracker stats ||